62880, 65139, 68923, 62712, and 67420: Update VM options buttons and review most of virtualmachines.rst (#605)
freenas/freenas-docs: userguide/virtualmachines.rst

   processors ceased in 2012 or 2013.

> .. index:: Virtual Machines Page

Author: Virtual Machines is already in use, what should the title of this subsection be?

> .. index:: Virtual Machines Page

Reviewer: How about `Virtual Machine List`?

> .. index:: Virtual Machines Page

Author: I deleted this title completely. The text is now part of the larger "Virtual Machines" top-level section.

.. _Virtual Machines Page:

Virtual Machines Page
---------------------

> Go to

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

:menuselection:`Virtual Machines`

> to see a table with each installed VM. A graph of total VM memory usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shows a list of installed virtual machines. A graph of current VM memory usage
```

> displays at the top of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is shown at the top of the page.
```

.. figure:: images/virtual-machines.png

>    Virtual Machines Page

Reviewer: Page?

> The VM :guilabel:`Name`, :guilabel:`State`, :guilabel:`VNC Port` (if

Reviewer: The user can see the fields shown, so we don't have to list them here.

present), :guilabel:`Type`, :guilabel:`Description`, number of
:guilabel:`Virtual CPUs`, :guilabel:`Memory Size` (in MiB),
:guilabel:`Boot Loader Type`, and :guilabel:`Autostart` values are shown

> in the table. The table display is adjusted by clicking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the table. The table display can be adjusted by clicking
```

> :guilabel:`COLUMNS` and selecting which columns are shown in the table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`COLUMNS` to select which columns are shown.
```

Click |ui-options| to see additional buttons for a VM.

> These choices are available in the |ui-options| menu regardless of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |ui-options| menu offers these choices:
```

> current :guilabel:`State`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> * :guilabel:`Edit` opens a form to change the VM settings. The VM name,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :guilabel:`Edit` changes the VM settings.
```
Again, we don't need to list all the fields that can be edited.  That will be visible on the screen.  Also, it will change from version to version, so listing them here is just more work to keep in sync with no real benefit to the user.

  description, number of virtual CPUs, allocated memory, boot loader,
  and option to start the VM on system boot can all be adjusted.

* :guilabel:`Delete` removes the VM. :ref:`Zvols <Adding Zvols>` used in
  :ref:`disk devices <vms-disk-device>` and image files used in
  :ref:`raw file <vms-raw-file>` devices are *not* removed when a VM
  is deleted. These resources can be removed manually in
  :menuselection:`Storage --> Pools` after it is determined that the
  data in them has been backed up or is no longer needed.

> * :guilabel:`Devices` is used to add, remove, and edit the VM devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :guilabel:`Devices` is used to add, remove, and edit the devices attached to a virtual machine.
```

> * :guilabel:`Clone` makes a copy of the VM. The new clone has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :guilabel:`Clone` copies the VM. The new clone has
```

>   :samp:`_clone{N}` added to the name, where :samp:`{N}` is the number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :samp:`_clone{N}` appended to the name, where :samp:`{N}` is the clone
```

>   of the clone. %brand% displays a substantive error message if cloning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  number.
```
"Displays an error message if an error occurs" is not really useful, it should be a safe assumption by the reader that this happens everywhere.

>   a VM fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> When a VM is :guilabel:`STOPPED`, the :guilabel:`Start` option becomes

Reviewer: This is confusing.  "When it says STOPPED, Start becomes available" is... not clear.  Probably better to just not mention it.

Instead, just say "Clicking Start shows a start dialog with an option to "overcommit"..."

available in the |ui-options| menu. Click it to see a confirmation
dialog that offers the option to :guilabel:`Overcommit Memory`. Memory
overcommitment allows multiple VMs to be launched when there is not

> enough free memory for configured RAM of all VMs. Use with caution. The

Reviewer: s/configured RAM of/
s/Use with caution/This option should be used with caution."

> |web-ui| displays a substantive error message when a VM fails to start.

Reviewer: As above, remove this whole sentence.

When active, the VM :guilabel:`State` changes to :guilabel:`RUNNING`.

When a VM is :guilabel:`RUNNING`, more buttons in the |ui-options| menu
are available:

* :guilabel:`Power off` immediately halts the VM. This is equivalent
  to unplugging the power cord from a computer.

* :guilabel:`Stop` shuts down the VM.

* :guilabel:`VNC` opens a new browser tab pointed to the `VNC
  <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_Network_Computing>`__

>   port of the VM. This is used to access the VM. The VM must have a

Reviewer: With links and markup, roughly (list requirement first):
"VMs with :guilabel:`Web Interface` enabled show a :guilabel:`VNC` button. VNC connections permit remote access to the VM.

  :ref:`VNC device <vms-VNC>` with :guilabel:`Web Interface` enabled.

> * :guilabel:`Serial` opens a connection to the included virtual serial

Reviewer: s/the included/a/

>   port. :file:`/dev/nmdm1B` is assigned to the first VM,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  port on the VM. :file:`/dev/nmdm1B` is assigned to the first VM,
```

  :file:`/dev/nmdm2B` is assigned to the second VM, and so on. These
  virtual serial ports allow connecting to the VM console from the
  :ref:`Shell`.

  .. tip:: The `nmdm <https://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=nmdm>`__
     device is dynamically created. The actual :literal:`nmdm` name can

>      differ on each system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     varies on each VM.
```

  To connect to the first VM, type :literal:`cu -l /dev/nmdm1B -s 9600`
  in the :ref:`Shell`. See `cu(1)
  <https://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=cu>`__ for more
  information.

> Confirmation prompts appear when starting or deleting a VM.

Reviewer: This is not needed.

.. index:: Creating VMs
.. _Creating VMs:

Creating VMs
------------

Click on :guilabel:`ACTIONS` and :guilabel:`Add VM` to open the wizard

> shown in :numref:`Figure %s <vms_add_fig>`:

Reviewer: s/shown/

.. _vms_add_fig:

.. figure:: images/virtual-machines-add-wizard-type.png

   Add VM

Create a virtual machine by following the steps in the wizard.

> %brand% already shows the default choices in the wizard.

Reviewer: This whole paragraph seems unnecessary.

> The individual configuration options are described in

Reviewer: s/individual/

>    | Screen # | Setting            | Value          | Description                                                                                   |

Reviewer: Do we need to have "Screen #" here?  We are showing these in order, and the numbers are usually not shown in the UI, at least not when the user is on that screen.

   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | 2        | Boot Method        | drop-down menu | Select *UEFI* for newer operating systems, or *UEFI-CSM* (Compatibility Support Mode) for     |
   |          |                    |                | older operating systems that only understand BIOS booting. VNC connections are only available |
   |          |                    |                | with *UEFI*.                                                                                  |
   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | 2        | Start on Boot      | checkbox       | Set to start the VM when the system boots.                                                    |
   |          |                    |                |                                                                                               |
   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>    | 2        | Enable VNC         | checkbox       | Set to add a VNC remote connection. Requires *UEFI* booting.                                  |

Reviewer: s/Set to add/Add/

   |          |                    |                | number of CPUs.                                                                               |
   |          |                    |                |                                                                                               |
   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | 3        | Memory Size (MiB)  | integer        | Allocate the amount of RAM in                                                                 |
   |          |                    |                | `mebibytes <https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mebibyte>`__ for the VM.                        |
   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | 4        | Disk image         | check option   | Select :guilabel:`Create new disk image` to create a new zvol on an existing dataset.         |
   |          |                    | with custom    | This is used as a virtual hard drive for the VM. Select :guilabel:`Use existing disk image`   |

>    |          |                    | fields         | and click |ui-browse| to select an existing zvol for the VM.                                  |

Reviewer: s/an existing/a zvol/

   |          |                    |                |                                                                                               |
   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>    | 4        | Define the size    | integer        | Allocate the amount of storage in GiB for the new zvol. Appears when                          |

Reviewer: The "appears when" sentence is not really needed.

   | Screen # | Setting            | Value          | Description                                                                                   |
   |          |                    |                |                                                                                               |
   +==========+====================+================+===============================================================================================+

>    | 1        | Virtual Machine    | drop-down menu | Choose to create either a standard VM or a :ref:`Docker Host <Docker Hosts>`.                 |

Reviewer: With markup:

Select a standard VM or Docker host...

>    |          | (VM) Wizard type   |                |                                                                                               |

Reviewer: Not sure what this (VM) notation implies.

Author: It is an exact duplicate of the field name from the UI

   |          |                    |                | for detailed instructions about using a different guest OS.                                   |
   |          |                    |                |                                                                                               |
   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>    | 2        | Name               | string         | Enter an alphanumeric name to identify the VM. An error occurs if another VM is already       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | 2        | Name               | string         | Name of the VM. An error is shown if the name is already used by an existing VM.       |
```

>    |          |                    |                | using the same name.                                                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

   |          |                    |                |                                                                                               |
   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>    | 2        | Boot Method        | drop-down menu | Select *UEFI* for newer operating systems, or *UEFI-CSM* (Compatibility Support Mode) for     |

Reviewer: Should mention that VNC is only available with UEFI.

   |          |                    |                | older operating systems that only understand BIOS booting.                                    |
   |          |                    |                |                                                                                               |
   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | 2        | Start on Boot      | checkbox       | Set to start the VM when the system boots.                                                    |
   |          |                    |                |                                                                                               |
   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>    | 2        | Enable VNC         | checkbox       | Set to to activate a :ref:`Virtual Network Computing <vms-VNC>` (VNC) remote connection.      |

Reviewer: Duplicate "to".

"Set to add a VNC..."

   |          |                    |                | Requires *UEFI* booting.                                                                      |
   |          |                    |                |                                                                                               |
   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>    | 3        | Virtual CPUs       | integer        | Enter the number of virtual CPUs to allocate to the VM. The maximum is 16 unless              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | 3        | Virtual CPUs       | integer        | Number of virtual CPUs to allocate to the VM. The maximum is 16 unless              |
```

>    |          |                    |                | the host CPU limits the maximum. The VM operating system might also have                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   |          |                    |                | limited by the host CPU. The VM operating system might also have                      |
```

   |          | image              |                |                                                                                               |
   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | 6        | Upload ISO         | checkbox and   | Set to upload an installation media file to the %brand% system.                               |
   |          |                    | buttons        |                                                                                               |
   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

The final screen of the Wizard displays the chosen options for the new
VM. Click :guilabel:`SUBMIT` to create the VM or :guilabel:`BACK` to
change any settings.

This example creates a FreeBSD VM:

#. :guilabel:`Virtual Machine (VM) Wizard type` is set to
   *Virtual Machine (VM)*.

#. :guilabel:`Guest Operating System` is set to *FreeBSD*.
   :guilabel:`Name` is set to *samplevm*. Other options are left at

>    the default values.

Reviewer: Nope, "the" adds no value here.  In fact, we can also lose "values".
```suggestion
   defaults.
```

#. :guilabel:`Virtual CPUs` is set to *2* and
   :guilabel:`Memory Size (MiB)` is set to *2048*.

#. :guilabel:`Create new disk image` is selected. The zvol size is set

>    to *20* (GiB) and stored on the pool named *pool1*.

Reviewer: The parens make this more complex and less clear.
```suggestion
   to *20* GiB and stored on the pool named *pool1*.
```

   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | 4        | Disk image         | check option   | Select :guilabel:`Create new disk image` to create a new zvol on an existing dataset.         |
   |          |                    | with custom    | This is used as a virtual hard drive for the VM. Select :guilabel:`Use existing disk image`   |

>    |          |                    | fields         | and click |ui-browse| to select an existing zvol or file for the VM.                          |

Reviewer: I think we determined that files are not allowed, only zvols.  Please verify.

Author: testing with latest 11.2 only displays created zvols in the drop-down menu. Updating text

   |          |                    |                |                                                                                               |
   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | 4        | Zvol size (GiB)    | integer        | Allocate the amount of storage in                                                             |

>    |          |                    |                | `gibibytes <https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gibibyte>`__ for the new zvol.                  |

Reviewer: No link here, just use the term "GiB".

>    |          |                    |                | Only appears if :guilabel:`Create new disk image` is selected.                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   |          |                    |                | Appears when :guilabel:`Create new disk image` is selected.                                |
```

   |          |                    |                |                                                                                               |
   |          |                    |                |                                                                                               |
   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>    | 6        | Choose             | browse button  | Click |ui-browse| to select to the operating system installation media that is stored on the  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | 6        | Choose             | browse button  | Click |ui-browse| to select the installation media stored on the  |
```

   |          | installation media |                | %brand% system.                                                                               |

>    |          | image              |                |                                                                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: "image" is used in the UI

   +----------+--------------------+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>    | 6        | Upload ISO         | checkbox and   | Set to display additional options to upload an operating system installation file to the      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | 6        | Upload ISO         | checkbox and   | Set to upload an installation media file to the      |
```

Adding Devices to a VM
----------------------

> Devices are added to a VM by going to

Reviewer: Better, but can be stronger:
```suggestion
Add devices to a VM by clicking
```

:menuselection:`Virtual Machines`,

> click |ui-options| :menuselection:`--> Devices`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|ui-options| :menuselection:`--> Devices`
```

> for the VM, and click |ui-add|.

Reviewer: Not sure if "for the VM" is clear.

* :ref:`Raw File <vms-raw-file>`

* :ref:`VNC Interface <vms-vnc>` (only available on virtual machines
  with :guilabel:`Boot Loader Type` set to *UEFI*)

:menuselection:`Virtual Machines -->` |ui-options| :menuselection:`--> Devices`
is also used to edit or delete existing devices. Click |ui-options| for
a device to display :guilabel:`Edit`, :guilabel:`Delete`,
:guilabel:`Change Device Order`, and :guilabel:`Details` options:

> * :guilabel:`Edit` shows a form to change a device.

Reviewer: More clauses than are needed:
```suggestion
* :guilabel:`Edit` modifies a device.
```

* :guilabel:`Delete` removes the device from the VM.

* :guilabel:`Change Device Order` sets the priority number for booting

>   this device. Lower numbers are higher in boot priority.

Reviewer: Confusing with the contrast between "lower" and "higher".
```suggestion
  this device. Smaller numbers are higher in boot priority.
```

* :guilabel:`Details` shows additional information about the specific
  device. This includes the physical interface and MAC address in a

>   *NIC* device, the path to the VM zvol in a *DISK* device, and the path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  *NIC* device, the path to the zvol in a *DISK* device, and the path
```

Adding Devices to a VM
----------------------

> To add a device to a VM, go to

Reviewer: Devices are added to a VM by going to...

* :ref:`Raw File <vms-raw-file>`

> * :ref:`VNC Interface <vms-vnc>` (only available on VMs with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :ref:`VNC Interface <vms-vnc>` (only available on virtual machines with
```

  :guilabel:`Boot Loader Type` set to *UEFI*)

:menuselection:`Virtual Machines -->` |ui-options| :menuselection:`--> Devices`

> is also used to edit or delete existing VM devices. Click |ui-options|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is also used to edit or delete existing devices. Click |ui-options|
```

for a device to display :guilabel:`Edit`,
:guilabel:`Delete`, :guilabel:`Change Device Order`, and
:guilabel:`Details` options:

> * :guilabel:`Edit` shows a form to make adjustments to existing device.

Reviewer: Wordy.  Just "Change a device."

   Raw File Disk Device

Click |ui-browse| to select the image file. If a specific sector size
is required, open the :guilabel:`Disk sector size` drop-down menu and

> pick between *512* and *4096* bytes. The *Default* value automatically

Reviewer: Why go so specific on this?
"If a specific sector size is required, choose it from Disk sector size.
*Default* automatically selects a preferred size."

   Raw File Disk Device

Click |ui-browse| to select the image file. If a specific sector size
is required, open the :guilabel:`Disk sector size` drop-down menu and
pick between *512* and *4096* bytes. The *Default* value uses an

> autotuner to find and set the best sector size for the file.

Reviewer: s/uses an autotuner/automatically selects a preferred/

> Setting the disk :guilabel:`Mode` to *AHCI* emulates an AHCI hard disk

Reviewer: s/the//

Set a :guilabel:`Device Order` number to determine the boot order of
this device. A lower number means a higher boot priority.

> Define the size of the file in GiB.

Reviewer: s/Define/Set/

   VNC Device

> The :guilabel:`Port` can be set to *0* for %brand% to assign a port when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting :guilabel:`Port` to *0* automatically assigns a port when
```

> the VM is started, or set to a fixed, preferred port number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the VM is started. If a fixed, preferred port number is needed, enter it here.
```

> Set :guilabel:`Delay connection until VM is up` to force the VNC client

Reviewer: This needs to be fixed in the UI and here.  It really means "Wait to boot the VM until a VNC connection is started", but we came up with better wording elsewhere.

Author: Updating to the proposed text from https://github.com/freenas/webui/pull/1807/files.

to wait until the VM has booted before attempting the connection.

> Use the :guilabel:`Resolution` drop-down menu to choose the default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Resolution` sets the default
```

> screen resolution used by the VNC session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
screen resolution used for the VNC session.
```

> Select the IP address for VNC to listen on with the :guilabel:`Bind`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the IP address on which VNC listens with :guilabel:`Bind`.
```

> drop-down menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
